

3 TYPES of Measures in a FACT Table
The numeric measures in a fact table fall into three categories. 

1)Fully additive
  The most ﬂexible and useful facts are fully additive; 
  additive measures can be summed across any of the dimensions associated with the fact table.
  An example of a fully additive measure is sales (purchases from a store). 
  You can add hourly sales to get the sales for a day, week, month, quarter, or year. You can add sales across stores or regions.
2)Semi-additive
  Semi-additive measures can be summed across some dimensions, but not all; 
  checking account or savings account balance amounts are common semi-additive facts. You can recreate a balance amount from the transactions file, 
  but it doesn't make any sense to add the balance amounts from October, November, and December (across the time dimension).
3)Non-additive
  Finally, some measures are completely non-additive, such as ratios. 
  A good approach for non-additive facts is, where possible, to store the fully additive components of the non-additive measure and sum these components into the ﬁnal answer set. 
  Finally, you calculate the ﬁnal non-additive fact.


3 types of fact
Transactional – Transactional fact table is the most basic one that each grain associated with it indicated as “one row per line in a transaction”, e.g., every line item appears on an invoice. Transaction fact table stores data of the most detailed level, therefore, it has a high number of dimensions associated with.
Periodic snapshots – Periodic snapshots fact table stores the data that is a snapshot in a period of time. The source data of periodic snapshots fact table is data from a transaction fact table where you choose a period to get the output.
Accumulating snapshots – The accumulating snapshots fact table describes the activity of a business process that has clear beginning and end. This type of fact table, therefore, has multiple date columns to represent milestones in the process. A good example of accumulating snapshots fact table is processing of a material. As steps towards handling the material are finished, the corresponding record in the accumulating snapshots fact table gets updated.




Factless fact and coverage fact
  Factless fact: like a conjuncted dimension to deal with many to many relationship. 
    e.g. student teacher example, in factless fact, you will only have studentID, the teacherID
  Coverage fact: there are some question factless fact cant't answer
    e.g. which student don't have any teacher to teach? which teacher don't have any student to teach
    Suppose you have 100 stu, 5 teachers, you will have 5x100 entries in the fact table.
    an actural relation will be mark as 1, otherwith 0
